# Reflection Essay

## 1. Discuss one challenge you overcame during your academic development. What was the challenge, was it technical, nontechnical, or both, and how did you overcome it?

During my academic development there were many challenges I had to overcome. Coming from a family that are immigrants from Guyana and being a first generation born American I did not have much guidance navigating college and the American educational system. From the time I was in High School it was on me to get myself in college and handle the financial and academic nuances that came with it. I had to learn many valuable lessons I know now through trial and error which of course came with some costs as well. I remember working diligently my freshman year for a GPA well above a 3.0 just so I can qualify for more scholarships just to find out I would not qualify for these state scholarships after achieving the GPA I wanted because my mom has residency in New York. This was my first major disappointment in college. The following year I dealt with one of my hardest semesters in school while also feeling homesick about being so far away from my family in NYC while attending Charleston Southern University in South Carolina. This led to me considering transferring to a school in NYC and eventually taking a one year break from being a student at the time. Throughout the rest of college I've dealt with many academic, personal, emotional, and family related challenges but, the main thing that has kept me going down this path to earn my degree is perseverance and the desire to improve. I would say that I am obsessed with self-improvement and it's this desire that has directed me thus far. 

## 2. Discuss a situation where you worked with a team. How would you describe yourself as a teammate? Where can you improve your team skills? Be specific.

A situation where I worked with a team would be right now in my spring 2023 semester. I would describe myself as a diligent worker and persistent communicator. If our team has not talked in two or three days I would reach out and suggest we all meet to make sure we are all on the same page with our semester long project. One thing I can see myself improving on is relying on my teammates when I need help. 

## 3. What type of career in CS do you believe you are most suited for? Why this field and not another? Be specific.

The type of career I am most suited for in Computer Science is a career in software product development preferably as a UI/UX engineer. I say this because I enjoy the ideation, innovation, and problem solving aspects of creating and developing a product or feature from ground zero. I also believe this is something that comes natural to me as a “big picture thinker”. It brings me joy to know that I can have a hand in creating something that can improve someone's life and leave an impact on the world. The engineering aspect of this role comes from the fact that my Computer Science background has been slowly but surely tailoring my hard skills for that role. In the future I see myself as an empathetic innovator with amazing soft and managerial skills along with the hard skills of a web and mobile app developer to support it.

## 4. What professional organizations would you like to join? What professional development would you like to be a part of in the next five years? Be specific and don't consider places of employment.

The professional organization I would like to join is the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET). I would like to join this organization because their focus is on innovation within engineering and technology in order to improve society. Their values on integrity, excellence, and teamwork resonate with my own personal values. A professional development I would like to be a part of in the next five years is a technological project to resolve an issue in an underdeveloped country. In Africa there are many technological developments happening and I would love to be able to contribute to that as a person of African descent.

## 5. What are the ways you can use the skills you have learned in CS to serve your community? Be specific.

Some ways I can use my skills in Computer Science to serve my community is by sharing the knowledge on the skills I gained with people that come from low income areas in Brooklyn like me. Many kids, especially black and brown ones are not exposed to the opportunities and possibilities Computer Science can bring, so me being a representative of that demographic can hopefully shed some light. I would also use my skills to take part in developing some software products and strive to make the world more equitable through my contributions with them as a person of color.  
